my name is Dan Cohen on oh yeah I'm an
academic as you said and what that means
is that I argue it's an important part
of my life and I like to argue and I'm
not just an academic I'm uh I'm a
philosopher so I like to think that I'm
actually pretty good at arguing but I
also like to think a lot about arguing
and in thinking about arguing I've come
across some puzzles and one of the
puzzles is that as I've been thinking
about arguing over the years and it's
been decades now I've gotten better at
arguing but the more that I argue and
the more and the better I get at arguing
the more that I lose and that's a puzzle
and the other puzzle is that I'm
actually okay with that why is it that
I'm okay with Lisbon why is it that I
think that good arguers are actually
better at losing well there's some other
puzzles one is why do we argue benefits
from arguments when I think about
arguments now I'm talking about let's
call them academic arguments or
cognitive arguments where something
cognitive is at stake is this
proposition true is this theory a good
theory is this an is this a viable
interpretation of the data or the text
and so on I'm not interested really
arguments about whose turn it is to do
the dishes or who's who has to take out
the garbage yeah I we have those
arguments - um I tend to win those
arguments because I know the tricks but
those aren't the important organs I'm
interested in academic or academic
arguments today and here the things that
puzzle me first what a good arguers win
when they win an argument what do I win
if I convince you that utilitarianism
isn't really the right framework for
thinking about ethical theories so what
do we win when we win an argument
even before that what does it matter to
me whether you have this this idea that
uh consti rework sir or mills the right
right emphasis to follow it's no skin
off my back but whether you think
functionalism is a viable theory of mind
so why do we even try to argue why don't
try to convince other people to believe
things that they don't want to believe
and is that even a nice thing to do is
that a nice way to treat another human
being try and make them think something
they
they don't want to they don't want to
think well my answer is gonna make
reference to three models for arguments
the first model let's call this the
dialectical models that we think of
arguments as war and you know what
that's like there's a lot of screaming
and shouting and winning and losing and
that's not really a very helpful model
for our group but it's a pretty common
and entrenched model for arguing but
there's a second model for arguing
arguments as proofs think of a
mathematicians argument here's my
argument does it work is it any good are
the premises warranted or there are the
inferences valid does the conclusion
follow from the premises no opposition
no adversary Avi not necessarily any any
any arguing in the adversarial sense but
there's a third model to keep in mind
that I think it's been very helpful and
that is arguments as performances or
admits in front of an audience we can
think of a politician trying to present
a position trying to convince the
audience of something but there's
another twist on this model and I that I
really think is important
namely that when we argue before an
audience sometimes the audience has a
more participatory role in the argument
that is arguments are also audiences in
front of juries who make a judgement
decide the case let's call this the
rhetorical model where you have to
tailor your argument to the audience at
hand
you know presenting a sound you know
well argued tight argument in English
before a francophone what is just isn't
going to work so we have these models
argument is war argument is proof and
argument as performance of those three
the argument is war is the dominant one
it dominates how we talk about arguments
it dominates how we think about
arguments and because of that it shapes
how we argue our actual conduct and
arguments now when we talk about
arguments yeah we talk in a very
militaristic language we want strong
arguments arguments have a lot of punch
organs that are right on target we want
to have our defenses up and our
strategies all on order we want killer
arguments that's the kind of argument
wart
it is the dominant way of thinking about
arguments when I said talking about
arguments that's probably what you
thought of the the adversarial model but
the art of the war metaphor the war
paradigm or model for thing Americans
has I think deforming effects on how we
argue first it elevates tactics over
substance like you can take class and
logic or mutation you learn all about
the the subterfuges that people use the
triangle organs the the four steps it
magnifies the us-versus-them aspect of
it it makes it adversarial it's
polarizing and the only foreseeable
outcomes is triumphs glorious triumph or
object ignominy estefy I think those are
deforming effects and worst of all it
seems to prevent things like negotiation
or deliberation or compromise or
collaboration think about that way I
have you ever entered an argument thing
let's see if we can hash something out
rather than find it out what can we work
out together and I think the argument is
war metaphor inhibits those other kinds
of resolutions to argumentation and
finally this is really the the worst
thing apartments don't seem to get us
anywhere
they're dead ends they are what
roundabouts are traffic jams or gridlock
in conversation we don't get anywhere oh
and one more thing and as an educator
this is the one that that really bothers
me
if argument is war then there's an
implicit equation of learning with
losing and let me explain what I mean
suppose you and I have an argument you
believe a proposition P and I don't and
say well why do you believe P and you
give me a reasons and I object to say
well what about and you answer my
objection and I have a question well
what do you mean how does it apply over
here anyway my question now suppose at
the end of the day I've objected I've
questioned his authors of
counter-current considerations and in
every case you've responded to my
satisfaction and so at the end of the
day I say you know what I guess you're
right P
so I have a new belief and it's not just
any belief but it's a it's all well
articulated examined
it's a battle-tested belief great
cognitive game okay who won that
argument well the war metaphor seems to
force us into saying you won even though
I'm the only one who made any cognitive
gain what did you gain cognitively from
convinced convincing me sure you got
some pleasure out of it maybe your ego
stroked maybe get some professional
statutes Addison in the field this guy's
good arguer but cognitively now just
hard to put who was the winner the war
metaphor forces us into thinking that
you're the winner and I lost even though
I gained and that's there's something
wrong with that picture and that's the
picture I really want I want to change
if we can so have we find ways to make
arguments yield something positive what
we need is new exit strategies for
arguments but we're not gonna have a new
exit strategy for arguments until we
have new entry approaches to arguments
we need to think of new kinds of
arguments in order to do that well I
don't know how to do that that's the bad
news
the argument is war metaphor is just
it's a monster it's just taking up
habitation in their mind in this there's
no magic bullet that's gonna kill it
there's no magical one that's gonna make
it disappear I don't have an answer but
I have some suggestions and here's the
here's the sitch is my suggestion if we
want to think of new kinds of arguments
what we need to do is think of new kinds
of argues so try this think of all the
roles that people play in arguments
there's the proponent and the opponent
in an adversarial dialectical argument
there's the audience in rhetorical
arguments there's the reason they're in
arguments as proofs all these different
roles now can you imagine an argument in
which you were the arguer but you're
also in the audience watching yourself
argue can you imagine yourself watching
yourself are you losing the argument and
yet still at the end of the or
and say wow that was a good arguments
and you do that I think they can and I
think if you can imagine that kind of
argument where the loser says to the
winner and the oil and the audience and
the jury today yeah
that was a good argument then you have
imagined a good argument and more than
that I think you've imagined a good
arguer an arguer that's worthy of the
kind of argue you should try to be now I
lose a lot of arguments it takes
practice to become a good arguer in the
sense of being able to benefit losing
but you know fortunately I've had many
many colleagues who've been willing to
step up and provide that practice for me
thank you